README.md, before:

# CbusLibXC8
**MERG CBUS library for PIC18F MCUs - XC8 compiler.**

Written in C, with a smattering of assembler where necessary, these projects provide the basis
for creating the firmware for Microchip PIC18F based CBUS modules.

#### [CbusLibXC8](https://github.com/Syspixie/CbusLibXC8/tree/main/CbusLibXC8.X)

Code to provide basic CBUS functionality for PIC18F K80, K83, Q83 and Q84 processors.

#### [CbusLibBootXC8](https://github.com/Syspixie/CbusLibXC8/tree/main/CbusLibBootXC8.X)

Code to provide bootloader functionality for a CbusLibXC8 application.

**********

# Revision History

### Version 2e
Changed K80 oscillator from medium (HS1) to high (HS2) power.
To support legacy configurations, modified all processors to execute the bootloader at base oscillator frequency (16MHz), and to switch on PLL mode (64MHz) at the start of application code.

### Version 2d
Added validateEventVar, eventVarChanged and eventRemoved callbacks.
Added produceEvent function to support 'happenings'.

### Version 2c
Allow optimisation of event handling by assuming all event variables are used.
Replaced timedresponse with txmsg to provide more flexibility in queueing output messages.
Corrected opcode flags (check node number, add node number) for event opcodes.
Corrected CAN1 buffer transmit sequence.

### Version 2b
Moved Interrupt Vector Table to be compatible with bootloader.

### Version 2a
Added support for Q83/84 family processors.
Implemented Interrupt Vector Table for K83 and Q83/84 processors.

### Version 1a
Initial version, supporting K80 and K83 family processors.

**********

# Notes

## Developed using:
- MPLAB X IDE (v6.00)
- XC8 (v2.40)
- MPLAB Snap In-Circuit Debugger/Programmer
- MERG CANUSB CAN bus USB interface
- MERG CANGIZMO CBUS module bench tester
- MERG FLiM Configuration Utility (v1.4.7.54)

## Project properties
Hidden in each project's configuration files are some important settings which are vital
in the building of the code.

#### CbusLibBootXC8

The bootloader must be built first.

    Project properties -> Conf: [...]
       XC8 Compiler -> Optimisations -> Optimisation level -> 2  
       XC8 Linker -> Memory model -> ROM ranges -> 0-7FF

*Optimisation level is optional*  
*ROM ranges* 0-7FF *limits the bootloader to the lowest 2K of memory*

#### CbusLibXC8

The application can then be built.

    Project properties -> Conf: [...]
       Loading -> Add loadable file -> {select the .hex file of the appropriate bootloader}
       XC8 Compiler -> Optimisations -> Optimisation level -> 2
       XC8 Linker -> Additional options -> Codeoffset -> 0x0800
                                           Extra linker options -> -Wl,-Pmediumconst=848h

*Optimisation level is optional*  
*Codeoffset* 0x0800 *places the application above the bootloader in memory*  
-Wl,-Pmediumconst=848h *tells the linker to put constant data at a fixed location in lower memory, rather
than at the end of memory (which is required for application data)*

The required output is a *.unified.hex* file, which contains the bootloader and the application.

Commit message:

Added Defining 'const' variables to README.

README.md, after:

# CbusLibXC8
**MERG CBUS library for PIC18F MCUs - XC8 compiler.**

Written in C, with a smattering of assembler where necessary, these projects provide the basis
for creating the firmware for Microchip PIC18F based CBUS modules.

#### [CbusLibXC8](https://github.com/Syspixie/CbusLibXC8/tree/main/CbusLibXC8.X)

Code to provide basic CBUS functionality for PIC18F K80, K83, Q83 and Q84 processors.

#### [CbusLibBootXC8](https://github.com/Syspixie/CbusLibXC8/tree/main/CbusLibBootXC8.X)

Code to provide bootloader functionality for a CbusLibXC8 application.

**********

# Revision History

### Version 2e
Changed K80 oscillator from medium (HS1) to high (HS2) power.

To support legacy configurations, modified all processors to execute the bootloader at base oscillator frequency (16MHz), and to switch on PLL mode (64MHz) at the start of application code.

### Version 2d
Added validateEventVar, eventVarChanged and eventRemoved callbacks.

Added produceEvent function to support 'happenings'.

### Version 2c
Allow optimisation of event handling by assuming all event variables are used.

Replaced timedresponse with txmsg to provide more flexibility in queueing output messages.

Corrected opcode flags (check node number, add node number) for event opcodes.

Corrected CAN1 buffer transmit sequence.

### Version 2b
Moved Interrupt Vector Table to be compatible with bootloader.

### Version 2a
Added support for Q83/84 family processors.

Implemented Interrupt Vector Table for K83 and Q83/84 processors.

### Version 1a
Initial version, supporting K80 and K83 family processors.

**********

# Notes

## Developed using:
- MPLAB X IDE (v6.00)
- XC8 (v2.40)
- MPLAB Snap In-Circuit Debugger/Programmer
- MERG CANUSB CAN bus USB interface
- MERG CANGIZMO CBUS module bench tester
- MERG FLiM Configuration Utility (v1.4.7.54)

## Defining 'const' variables
The XC8 linker tries to locate all const data at the highest memory locations available.  This causes the bootloader
programming function to write **every** memory location, including all the unused memory between top of code and start
of const data. Bootloader programming becomes unnecessarily slow.

To stop this happening, all const data should be put in its own psect using the __section() macro *(note: two leading underscores)*.
For example:
```
const __section("constSec") uint8_t lookup[] = {3, 1, 4, 1, 5, 9, 2, 6, 5, 3, 6};
```

Even with this done, the linker puts an 'empty' psect called "mediumconst", containing two bytes of data, at the end of memory.
This can be moved using the 'Extra linker options' described below.

## Project properties
Hidden in each project's configuration files are some important settings which are vital
in the building of the code.

#### CbusLibBootXC8

The bootloader must be built first.

    Project properties -> Conf: [...]
       XC8 Compiler -> Optimisations -> Optimisation level -> 2  
       XC8 Linker -> Memory model -> ROM ranges -> 0-7FF

*Optimisation level is optional*  
*ROM ranges* 0-7FF *limits the bootloader to the lowest 2K of memory*

#### CbusLibXC8

The application can then be built.

    Project properties -> Conf: [...]
       Loading -> Add loadable file -> {select the .hex file of the appropriate bootloader}
       XC8 Compiler -> Optimisations -> Optimisation level -> 2
       XC8 Linker -> Additional options -> Codeoffset -> 0x0800
                                           Extra linker options -> -Wl,-Pmediumconst=848h

*Optimisation level is optional*  
*Codeoffset* 0x0800 *places the application above the bootloader in memory*  
-Wl,-Pmediumconst=848h *tells the linker to put const data at a fixed location in lower memory, rather
than at the highest memory locations available*

The required output is a *.unified.hex* file, which contains the bootloader and the application.
